live: initial docs draft (#2227)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/dvclive/dvclive-with-dvc.md

        dvclive.next_step()

(x_train, y_train), (x_test, y_test) = load_data()
model = get_model()

# dvclive.init("training_metrics")  # Implicit with DVC
model.fit(x_train,
          y_train,
          validation_data=(x_test, y_test),
          batch_size=128,
          epochs=3,
          callbacks=[MetricsCallback()])
```

Note that when using Dvclive in a DVC project, there is no need for manual
initialization of Dvclive (no `dvclive.init()` call).

Let's use `dvc stage add` to create a stage to wrap this code (don't forget to
`dvc init` first):

```dvc
$ dvc stage add -n train --live training_metrics
                -d train.py python train.py
```

`dvc.yaml` will contain a new `train` stage with the Dvclive
[configuration](/doc/dvclive/usage#initial-configuration) (in the `live` field):

```yaml
stages:
  train:
    cmd: python train.py
    deps:
      - train.py
    live:
      training_metrics:
        summary: true
        html: true
```

The value passed to `--live` (`training_metrics`) became the directory `path`
for Dvclive to write logs in. Other supported command options for DVC
integration:

- `--live-no-summary` - passes `summary=False` to Dvclive.

> - `--live-no-html` - passes `html=False` to Dvclive.

Reviewer: -[ ] Oh yeah also we need to add these to https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/stage/add#options ...

Reviewer: Done in 4042082d.

> Note that these are convenience CLI options. You can still use
> `dvclive.init()` manually, which it will override `dvc stage add` flags. Just
> be careful to match the `--live` value (CLI) and `path` argument (code).

Run the training with `dvc repro`:

```bash
$ dvc repro train
```

After that's finished, you should see the following content in the project:

```bash
$ ls
dvc.lock  training_metrics       training_metrics.json
dvc.yaml  training_metrics.html  train.py
```

If you open `training_metrics.html` in a browser, you'll see a plot for metrics
logged during the model training!

![](/img/dvclive_report.png)

## Further integrations

Dvclive is capable of creating _checkpoint_ signal files used by
[experiments](/doc/user-guide/experiment-management). See this example

> [repository](https://github.com/iterative/dvc-checkpoints-mnist) to see how.

Reviewer: Is there anything else? Otherwise there's probably no need for an H2 section just for this note.

Author: I made a note out of it

> # dvclive with DVC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Dvclive with DVC
```

Reviewer: Should capitalize everywhere or put it in back quotes if it refers to the py package name.

> Even though dvclive does not require DVC to function properly, it includes a lot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even though Dvclive does not require DVC to function properly, it includes a lot
```

> of integrations with DVC that user might find valuable. In this section we will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of integrations with DVC that you might find valuable. In this section we will
```

> modify the [example from previous one](/doc/dvclive/usage) to see how DVC can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
modify the [basic usage example](/doc/dvclive/usage) to see how DVC can
```

cooperate with dvclive.

Let's use the code prepared in previous example and try to make it work with
dvc. Training file `train.py` content:

```python
from keras.datasets import mnist
from keras.models import Sequential
from keras.layers.core import Dense, Activation
from keras.utils import np_utils

def load_data():
    (x_train, y_train), (x_test, y_test) = mnist.load_data()

    x_train = x_train.reshape(60000, 784)
    x_test = x_test.reshape(10000, 784)
    x_train = x_train.astype('float32')
    x_test = x_test.astype('float32')
    x_train /= 255
    x_test /= 255
    classes = 10
    y_train = np_utils.to_categorical(y_train, classes)
    y_test = np_utils.to_categorical(y_test, classes)
    return (x_train, y_train), (x_test, y_test)

def get_model():
    model = Sequential()
    model.add(Dense(512, input_dim=784))
    model.add(Activation('relu'))

    model.add(Dense(10, input_dim=512))

    model.add(Activation('softmax'))

    model.compile(loss='categorical_crossentropy',
    metrics=['accuracy'], optimizer='sgd')
    return model

from keras.callbacks import Callback

> import dvclive

Reviewer: @pared can these be on the top of the file for readability?

Reviewer: Also, shouldn't classes (class MetricsCallback) be defined before functions?

Author: It should, I thought that including it just above "execution" part makes it easier to copy-paste for user

Reviewer: Hmm I missed this. I'll send a PR with what I meant and request your review @pared 🙂

class MetricsCallback(Callback):
    def on_epoch_end(self, epoch: int, logs: dict = None):
        logs = logs or {}
        for metric, value in logs.items():
            dvclive.log(metric, value)
        dvclive.next_step()

(x_train, y_train), (x_test, y_test) = load_data()
model = get_model()

dvclive.init("training_metrics")
model.fit(x_train,
          y_train,
          validation_data=(x_test, y_test),
          batch_size=128,
          epochs=3,
          callbacks=[MetricsCallback()])
```

> DVC provides extensive integration with dvclive. When one is using dvclive in a
> project managed by DVC, there is no need for manual initialization of dvclive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When one is using Dvclive in a
DVC project, there is no need for manual initialization of `dvclive`
```

inside the code.

So in case of our code we can remove the following line:

```python
dvclive.init("training_metrics")
```

Now, lets use dvc to create the stage:

```dvc
$ dvc stage add -n train --live training_metrics -d train.py python train.py
```

In `dvc.yaml` there is new stage defined, containing information about the

> dvclive outputs. Inside the stage file, they are named `live`:

Reviewer: Should add to https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/project-structure/pipelines-files#stage-entries 🙂

Reviewer: (and link back to this new doc)

Reviewer: (Feel free to make a separate issue for these pending related updates.)

Reviewer: OK I did this in 5814b320.

```bash
$ cat dvc.yaml

stages:
  train:
    cmd: python train.py
    deps:
    - train.py
    live:
      training_metrics:
        summary: true
        html: true
```

As you can see, `live` output has already some properties defined.

> - `summary` - if `true`, after each `next_step` call, dvclive will dump all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `summary` - if `true`, after each `next_step` call, Dvclive will dump all
```

  metrics gathered during the step into the JSON file named after `live` output.
  In this case, it will be `training_metrics.json`.

> - `html` - if `true`, after each `next_step` call, dvclive will signal `dvc` to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `html` - if `true`, after each `next_step` call, Dvclive will signal `dvc` to
```

  output. In this case it will be `training_metrics.html`.

> DVC integration allows to pass the information that `training_metrics` is `path`
> argument for `dvclive.init`. Other supported args for DVC integration:
> 
> - `--live-no-summary` - passes `summary=False` into the `dvc.yaml`.
> - `--live-no-html` - passes `html=False` into the `dvc.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The value passed to `--live` (`training_metrics`) became the directory `path`
for Dvclive to write logs in. Other supported command options for DVC integration:

- `--live-no-summary` - passes `summary=False` to Dvclive.
- `--live-no-html` - passes `html=False` to Dvclive.
```

> > Note that those `dvc stage add` params are only convinience methods. If you
> > decide to invoke `dvclive.init` manually, the manual call config will override
> > provided `run` args. In such case your `path` arg for `dvclive.init` must
> > match `--live` argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note that these are convenience CLI options. You can still
> use `dvclive.init()` manually, which it will override
> `dvc stage add` flags. Just be careful to match the `--live` value (CLI) and
> `path` argument (code).
```

> Run the training:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the training with `dvc repro`:
```

```bash
$ dvc repro train
```

> After it is done you should see following content of your repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After that's finished, you should see the following content in the project:
```

```bash
$ ls

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

dvc.lock  training_metrics       training_metrics.json
dvc.yaml  training_metrics.html  train.py
```

> `training_metrics.json` and `training_metrics.html` are there because we did not
> provide `--live-no-sumary` nor `--live-no-html`. If you will open
> `training_metrics.html` in your browser, you will get plots for metrics logged
> during the training.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you open
`training_metrics.html` in a browser, you'll see a plot for metrics logged
during the model training!
```

![](/img/dvclive_report.png)

> ### Going further
> 
> DVC integration does not end here. Dvclive is capable of creating checkpoint
> signal files used by [experiments](/doc/start/experiments). See the sample
> [repository](https://github.com/iterative/dvc-checkpoints-mnist) to see how to
> make `dvclive` and [DVC experiments](/doc/user-guide/experiment-management) work
> together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Further integrations

Dvclive is capable of creating _checkpoint_
signal files used by [experiments](/doc/user-guide/experiment-management). See this example
[repository](https://github.com/iterative/dvc-checkpoints-mnist) to see how.
```

> dvclive integration does not end here. dvclive is capable of creating checkpoint
> signal files used by [experiments](/doc/start/experiments). See the sample
> [repository](https://github.com/iterative/dvc-checkpoints-mnist) to see how to
> make dvclive and experiments work together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DVC integration does not end here. Dvclive is capable of creating checkpoint
signal files used by [experiments](/doc/start/experiments). See the sample
[repository](https://github.com/iterative/dvc-checkpoints-mnist) to see how to
make `dvclive` and [DVC experiments](/doc/user-guide/experiment-management)
work together.
```
